the
february protest by canadian truckers
they're protesting coveted restrictions
some of them block border crossings some
of them snarl the capital city of ottawa
a quotation
then a video clip here's the quotation
you in a message you taped for the
protesters
i'd like to commend all of you for your
diligence and work
on accomplishing what you have under
trying conditions and also for keeping
your heads
in a way that's been a model for the
entire world close quote
now the clip
it has to stop
the people of ottawa don't deserve to be
harassed in their own neighborhoods
they don't deserve to be confronted with
the inherent violence of a swastika
flying on a street corner
or a confederate flag
or the insults
and jeers
just because they're wearing a mask
that's not who canada who canadians are
all right so here's the here's hard to
even look at him
here's the first question
how can discourse
in a great democracy have become so
polarized
that jordan peterson and the prime
minister look at exactly the same set of
events and come to opposite conclusions
about them well he's lying
and i'm not
so that's a big part of the
that's a big part of the issue i don't
believe
that he ever says a word that's true
from what i've been able to observe it's
all stage acting he's crafted a persona
he has a particular instrumental
goal in mind and everything is
subordinated to serve that
why what's the motivation
uh the same motivation that generally
that's generally typical of people who
are narcissistic
which is to
be accredited with moral virtue in the
absence of the work necessary to
actually attain it
all right
he's playing a role
from you know the swastika thing it's
like really just untrue about canadians
really we're going to be worried about
nazis in canada because i had protests
for example where people accuse me of
attracting nazis first of all that just
isn't a thing in canada there isn't a
nazi tradition and i don't know anyone
in canada who's ever met anyone who's
met someone who was canadian who and who
is a nazi and so that's just a
non-starter and so when that sort of
thing gets dragged into the conversation
right off the bat you know the canadians
shouldn't be subjected to the inherent
violence of a swastika first of all it's
not even obvious what that swastika was
doing there there's a there's reasonable
evidence to suggest that the person who
was waving it was either a plant or
someone who was making the comment that
that was what was characteristic of the
government not of what they believed now
no one knows because the story around
that event is messy and uh it's not like
there were credible journalists who were
going in there to investigate thoroughly
but to use that
and the confederate
the confederate flag issue is exactly
the same thing you know the story in
canada
the our prime minister implemented the
emergencies act and so the question was
why and so i
went on twitter when this was trending
and read at least 5 000 twitter comments
to try to get a sense these were people
who were supporting trudeau in his
application the emergencies act and i
was trying to figure out okay well what
what do they believes happening
and the story seemed to be and this is
as far as i can tell and maybe i'm wrong
the story was something like
make america great again
conservative republicans on the you know
pretty far right were attempting to
destabilize canadian democracy
and so my question was well what makes
you think they care first of all about
canada and its democracy and second why
in the world would they possibly do that
you need a motive for a crime like that
and that was at the same time the cbc
was insisting the canadian broadcasting
corporation which is subsidized by the
liberals to the tune of 1.2 billion
dollars a year was insisting that most
of the money that the truckers raised
was foreign financed if it wasn't the
bloody russians then it was the american
conservatives and so that all turned out
to be a complete lie and so
fine it's uh republican right wingers
trying to destabilize canadian democracy
why no one has an answer for that
because what's in it for them and then
okay
three days later the emergency act was
lifted i thought okay now what are they
going to make of that what could the
possibly be the rationale for that and
the rationale was
well that just shows you how effective
he was we had this coup
ready to go that was financed by
americans apparently and our prime
minister acted so forthrightly that we
only needed to be under the strictures
of the emergency act for three days it's
like okay
i don't even know what sort of world i
exist in where those things are
happening
so and then canadians
why do canadians buy this to the degree
they do and i think
they're faced with a hard choice because
in my country for 150 years you could
trust the basic institutions you could
trust the government didn't matter what
political party was running it you could
trust the political parties right from
the socialists over the conservatives
the socialists were mostly union types
and they were trying to
give the working class a voice and
honestly so
um you could trust the the media even
the canadian broadcasting corporation
was a reliable source of news
you
none of that's true now and so canadians
are asked to make a hard choice or were
in the truckers convoy uh situation and
the choice was
well either all your institutions are
almost irretrievably corrupt or the
truckers were financed by like
right-wing republican-americans
well
both of those are preposterous you might
as well take the one that's least
disruptive to your entire sense of
security
and so i think that's what canadians did
mostly all right